In this lesson, we're going to learn how to make the logic for our site to have a log in and log out
system.
If we do this, the user will be able to log in with their username and password and then log out if
they wish.
This will cause the data not to be visible on the screen unless we are logged in as users.
Then we need to add a condition which checks if the user is logged in and if not provide a link to log
them in.
Up here, for example, there should be a link that says login or something like that.
And in case the user is already logged in, what we have to show on the screen at the top is the user's
name and a button to give them the option to log out.
So we're going to go to our task list, HTML file, which is the one that represents this page we're
looking at here.
And we're going to leave some space at the top because this is where we want to put these elements first.
We're going to put a paragraph.
We're going to do this with the P tag.
And in this tag we're going to call with the double square brackets, request, dot user, and underneath
we're going to generate a h r tag which serves to create a horizontal bar, i.e. a kind of separator.
And now let's try to understand the logic of this block.
Where is this user going to be requested from?
Well, remember that I'm now logged in as the site administrator and therefore the site already has
a username assigned to me.
We are now logged out as administrators and the site has our username.
So now if I refresh here, here it says window ten, which is my username and the horizontal bar.
If I now go to admin, let's open a new window and let's open the admin page.
You can see that here.
I can log out with this log out, but I'm not going to log out from here because I'm going to take the
opportunity to show you how the machine sees it from the code.
So let's go to inspect and from here I'll go to application and once here let's look for the cookies.
In the cookies we see the URL of the site and now we see that a session ID has been generated here,
which is the one that has this information.
So if I delete this now, the site no longer has this information.
So let's close, inspect, refresh again.
And I now appear as an anonymous user, meaning that I need to provide my data if I want to recognize
me.
So let's refresh this admin and let's log back in and let's refresh again and I appear as Win ten again.
But for the purposes of this exercise, I want to log in so I can show how we make this happen programmatically
and not from the admin page since the end user will not have access to it.
So let's come back to the pie chart and inside the same file.
I'm going to put this P tag inside and if to verify the condition we mentioned before.
So how do we put an F inside Django with the square brackets with percentage and here we put if request
user until we apply the property is authenticated.
And now we put the P here with a tab so that the requested user is only displayed if the condition that
there is is an authenticated user is met.
And here we also going to make it so that there is a registered user.
You can see a link with the label A that allows us to log out.
That is to say with this, we give him the possibility that if he's already logged in, he can log out.
And this link will send us with the h ref to a URL that we have yet to develop.
So for now we leave it empty and then we're going to establish that in case you are not logged in for
which we put brackets sign and else.
In that case, we're going to show him a label that says log in so that he clicks here and can log in.
So where is this tag going to take him?
Well, to ref and we've got to build this URL as well.
So we'll leave it like this for now.
And remember that once we finish and if in Django we have to add the end if and we're all set.
So I go back to my place, I refresh it, and I'm not logged in.
It says, Log in.
If I click here, it won't take me anywhere because I haven't built that yet.
But I'm going to log in here as an administrator and now I'm logged in.
I can see it, says Winton, and the option to log out.
So we need to create a form that appears after clicking on log in so that the user can enter his log
in details there.
And that's what we're going to do in the next lesson.
So let's get going.